[Music]
it's a huge surprise to many people that
our rocky reefs are so colorful and can
be as amazing as coral reefs in the
tropics so I first started diving up
here 35 years ago and in those days we
never saw the results of scallop
dredging so the first time we came
across ground looking like a plowed
field we were horrified we didn't know
what it was and eventually in
frustration we went and put a complaint
in to Europe and to everybody's surprise
our complaint was accepted dredging had
to stop here and then that sent a legal
precedent which allowed dredging to be
stopped in other special areas of
conservation as two three four years
went by it became very exciting we were
seeing all the changes seeing the reefs
becoming more healthy seeing the scallop
ground becoming more healthy and we
started going back and identifying the
same places that we'd filmed while
dredging was going on and the recovery
since dredging stopped has been
fantastic for scallop divers it's also
being great for wildlife tourism from
the boat we're out there watching bait
balls watching gannets diving in from
the skies and orcs and poor boys pushing
the fish up to the surface we're
recording an increase in the number of
common seals at a time when common seals
are in decline everywhere else in
Scotland and we're seeing dolphins more
regularly the sea has a great capacity
for recovery as long as we don't damage
it too long and when we stop damaging
things they will recover